README.md, before:

# Sprint Game Manager (SGM)

Desktop GUI for managing Intellivision Sprint Console games (ROM, config, metadata, and images) for sideloading.

## Using the app (end users)

### 1) Pick your games folder
- Use the folder picker to choose the root folder that contains your game files.
- The game list populates from the detected basenames.

### 2) Select a game
- Click a game to edit its assets.
- The top-left warning counter reflects missing/invalid assets (including image resolution mismatches).

### Analyze the games folder
- Use the **Analyze** area to scan the currently selected games folder and compute warnings per game.
- Use the warning filters to show only specific issues (missing ROM/config/metadata/images, resolution mismatches, etc.).
- Enable **Only games with warnings** to quickly narrow the game list.
- Use the **select all / clear all** filter buttons to toggle filters faster.
- If you add/rename files, re-run Analyze (or Refresh) to update results.

### 3) Add / rename content
- Drag & drop accepted files into the app (or use the Add actions) to copy them into the selected game.
- Use **Change File Name** to rename the game (updates associated files).

### 4) Edit metadata
- Use the metadata editor panel to create/edit `<basename>.json` and save changes.

### 5) Manage images
Each image card supports:
- **Browse**: pick an image file.
- **Paste**: paste an image from the clipboard.
- **Drag & drop**: drop an image file onto the card.
- **Resize** (when shown): fixes wrong-resolution PNGs.

### 6) Overlays (1–3)
- **Build**: generate an overlay from a template + bottom image.
- **Blank**: sets the slot to the packaged empty overlay image.
- **Keep Ratio** (overlay cards only): when checked, Browse/Paste keeps the source aspect ratio and centers it on a transparent canvas (no stretching).
- **Reorder overlays**: if at least two overlay files exist, drag one overlay card onto another to swap/move their underlying files.

### 7) Snapshots (1–3)
- If you have multiple snap images, drag one snap card onto another to swap/move `_snap1/_snap2/_snap3`.

### 8) QR code
- Use the QR tools to generate/update the game QR image (including URL-based creation).

## Technical (developers)

### Setup

```powershell
. .\.venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Run

```powershell
python main.py
```

### Build standalone EXE (Windows)

```powershell
. .\.venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
pip install -r requirements.txt
pip install -r requirements-build.txt
./build_exe.ps1
```

Output: `dist\SprintGameManager.exe`

### App config

On first run, the app creates `sgm.ini` in the current working directory (project root by default). It stores settings like `LastGameFolder`, expected image resolutions, and overlay template override settings.

Commit message:

Reworked json bulk update and added keep ratio to all image controls

README.md, after:

# Sprint Game Manager (SGM)

Desktop GUI for managing Intellivision Sprint Console games (ROM, config, metadata, and images) for sideloading.

## Using the app (end users)

### 1) Pick your games folder
- Use the folder picker to choose the root folder that contains your game files.
- The game list populates from the detected basenames.

### 2) Select a game
- Click a game to edit its assets.
- The top-left warning counter reflects missing/invalid assets (including image resolution mismatches).

### Analyze the games folder
- Use the **Analyze** area to scan the currently selected games folder and compute warnings per game.
- Use the warning filters to show only specific issues (missing ROM/config/metadata/images, resolution mismatches, etc.).
- Enable **Only games with warnings** to quickly narrow the game list.
- Use the **select all / clear all** filter buttons to toggle filters faster.
- If you add/rename files, re-run Analyze (or Refresh) to update results.

### 3) Add / rename content
- Drag & drop accepted files into the app (or use the Add actions) to copy them into the selected game.
- Use **Change File Name** to rename the game (updates associated files).

### 4) Edit metadata
- Use the metadata editor panel to create/edit `<basename>.json` and save changes.

### 5) Manage images
Each image card supports:
- **Browse**: pick an image file.
- **Paste**: paste an image from the clipboard.
- **Drag & drop**: drop an image file onto the card.
- **Resize** (when shown): fixes wrong-resolution PNGs.

### 6) Overlays (1–3)
- **Build**: generate an overlay from a template + bottom image.
- **Blank**: sets the slot to the packaged empty overlay image.
- **Keep Ratio** (overlay cards only): when checked, Browse/Paste keeps the source aspect ratio and centers it on a transparent canvas (no stretching).
- **Reorder overlays**: if at least two overlay files exist, drag one overlay card onto another to swap/move their underlying files.

### 7) Snapshots (1–3)
- If you have multiple snap images, drag one snap card onto another to swap/move `_snap1/_snap2/_snap3`.

### 8) QR code
- Use the QR tools to generate/update the game QR image (including URL-based creation).

### Folder support
- The app supports a folder-per-game layout. Each game's files (ROM, .cfg, .json metadata, PNGs) live alongside a common basename.
- You can add or move games between folders; the UI preserves metadata and assets when renaming or moving files.
- Hidden folders (starting with `.`) are ignored. On Windows, filesystem-hidden folders are also respected.

### Advanced JSON settings
- Use the **Advanced** button in the metadata editor to open the Advanced JSON dialog for more specialized fields such as `save_highscores` and `jzintv_extra` file references.
- Advanced mode shows raw JSON editing of the metadata while preserving other keys when saving. Use it when you need to add custom keys or tweak nested structures.
- When editing JSON directly, the app validates basic structure but does not run schema-level validation — double-check any complex edits.

### JSON Bulk Updater
- Launch the JSON Bulk Updater from the `JSON Bulk Update` button under the Games list (below the Analyze controls).
- Purpose: visualize a selected JSON field across all games, preview proposed changes, and apply updates in bulk while preserving unrelated keys.
- Steps:
	1. Choose the **Field to Update** (standard fields like Players, Year, or `Other` for a custom key).
	2. Select a **Bulk Update Option** (No Change, Set Value, Replace/Prefix/Append Text, Remove Entry, or Regular Expression).
	3. If applicable, supply option inputs (Value, Find/Replace, Prefix, Append, or Regex pattern/replacement).
	4. Use the **Preview Updates** button to build a table showing Current vs New values for all games. Filter by Name/Path or Current Value to narrow the preview.
	5. Toggle the **Include** checkbox per-row to control which rows will be written. The label next to Perform Updates shows how many visible rows will be applied.
	6. Click **Perform Updates** to write changes — only included and visible rows are processed. The dialog preserves other JSON keys and refreshes to show the post-update state.

Tips:
- Prefix/Append: when applying a Prefix or Append to an empty or `<Not Defined>` current value, the updater trims leading/trailing whitespace from your input so you don't end up with stray spaces.
- Use the `...` buttons in table cells to view or edit full values in a popup when needed.
- Filters default to "Contains" to make searching easier; use the Clear Filters button (✕) to reset filters quickly.

## Technical (developers)

### Setup

```powershell
. .\.venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Run

```powershell
python main.py
```

### Build standalone EXE (Windows)

```powershell
. .\.venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
pip install -r requirements.txt
pip install -r requirements-build.txt
./build_exe.ps1
```

Output: `dist\SprintGameManager.exe`

### App config

On first run, the app creates `sgm.ini` in the current working directory (project root by default). It stores settings like `LastGameFolder`, expected image resolutions, and overlay template override settings.
